---
layout: post
title: Drug-use-data EDA
---

The goal of this project is to performing EDA on "drug use by age" data as well as to set up and test a hypothesis. The "drug-use-by-age.csv" data, sourced from and described here: https://github.com/fivethirtyeight/data/tree/master/drug-use-by-age.

First of all, a user-defined function was applied in data cleaning where the invalid symbols in some columns were removed. Also the data of drug users whose age is under 19 were removed.

And then the functions from Seaborn were deployed to visualize the data. In addition to hisogram and bar plot, the line plot and scatter plot displayed the relationship between drug use versus age. Also heatmap demonstrated the correlation matrix of all the drug use and user's age. Some of the findings are:

  At each age, in the past 12 months more than half of the drug users use alcohol and 80% of the drug users whose age is between 21 and 28 are consuming alcohol.
  
  More 19-year-old drug users (close to 40%) use marijuana than other ages and the percentage decreased with age.
  
  The percentage of drug users who use other drugs such as cocaine, crack, heroin, etc were generally low and decreased with age. In other words, few old people abuse these high drugs.

I learned how to set hypothesis and test it. The null hypothesis H0: the mean value of 'marijuana-use' of people whose age is within 22-34 is the same as the whole group's mean 'marijuana-use'. The alternative hypothesis H1: their mean values are different. T-statistics result showed that H0 can't be rejected. In other words, the average use of marijuana of people whose age within 22-34 are the same as average marijuana use of the whole group.

More detais refer to my github: github.com/weifusunny/dgsEDA-hypothesis.

Thank you for reading.
