---
layout: post
title: Basemap cool features
---

The first time I realized that I can visualize the mobile user's locations on a map. I searched how to deploy basemap features and tried it on this small program. Since I have longitude and latitude information, I can plot the spots on a map whose coastlines are drawn. That is so cool. 

When I saw the unique values of the latitude as below:

array([-33.89293336, -33.88032891, -33.88417103, -33.88024   ,
       ...
       -36.331075  , -36.50218   ])
       
I got the latitude variation range within which there are four cities: Sydney, Hobart, Melbourne and Canberra whose longitude and latitude can be easiy found out through Google.

Here are the codes to draw the coastlines and plot the spots where the user stayed as scattered dots.

       fig = plt.figure(figsize=(15, 15))
       
       sydney=(151.2093,-33.8688)
       
       hobart=(147.3272,-42.8821)
       
       melbourne=(144.9631,-37.8136)
       
       canberra=(149.13,-35.2809)
       
       m = Basemap(projection = 'merc', llcrnrlat=-48, urcrnrlat=-10,llcrnrlon=110, urcrnrlon=155)  # Australian coastlines
       
       m.scatter(loc_lon, loc_lat, latlon=True,  cmap='Reds', alpha=0.5)   # to plot scatter spots where the mobile phone user travels

       x, y = m(*zip(*[sydney,hobart,melbourne,canberra]))
       
       m.plot(x,y, marker ='o', markersize=6, markerfacecolor='red', linewidth=0)

       m.drawcoastlines()
       
When visualize the mobile phone user's locations we can easily see that this guy travelled to these cities and the areas nearby. 

For more information, please find the code in my github: github/weifusunny/basemap.

Thank you for reading.
